So to answer the question, why keep on the watch?
There's a simple direct answer, but we have a second reason as well to share during this talk.
Fine Mark, and we're going to read chapter 13, and it leads to our main reason why,
but the context will really help us in verse 32.
Let's read that, concerning that day or the hour, nobody knows.
Neither the angels in heaven nor the sun, but the Father.
Keep looking, keep awake, for you do not know when the appointed time is.
It is like a man traveling abroad who left his house and gave the authority to his slaves to each one's work
and commanded the doorkeeper to keep on the watch.
Keep on the watch, therefore, for you do not know when the master of the house is coming,
whether late in the day or at midnight or at dawn or early in the morning,
in order that when he comes, suddenly, he does not find you sleeping.
Now that's our Lord and master, very direct, compassionate, true, but direct.
And then the main reason why, verse 37, what I say to you, I say to all.
So it's being repeated to all of us listening.
Keep on the watch.
Very simple, very direct.
That's what is expected.
However, and I appreciated it, it hadn't heard further Cook's talk,
move about the details and such, but in the emphasize for all of us,
we're connected here with Jehovah, a God of comfort.
So while it's true, we want to address directly sometimes the things that Jesus has taught us,
it doesn't mean that Jehovah is no longer a God of comfort.
He wants to comfort us.
So this is the second reason, and if you'll find Isaiah,
and we're going to read in chapter 48,
and it's a very fine thought about why, keep on the watch.
Verse 17, very familiar to us, and you'll see the point.
This is what Jehovah says, your repurchaser, the Holy One of Israel.
I, Jehovah, am your God, the one teaching you to benefit yourself,
the one guiding you in the way you should walk.
Now, how we appreciate the footnote that adds depth to what Jehovah's saying here,
or for your own good.
Isn't that priceless?
Why keep on the watch?
It's for our own good.
It really is.
See, and that's the point, Jesus and Jehovah want us to take away.
We're trying to address that with this talk,
because some of you have been serving Jehovah for a long time,
and I'm not going to stare at anybody, because I know different ones.
And it's just amazing how Jehovah has been there for you all these years.
But you're only human, and we'll address some concerns and some reason.
I just wanted to have you think about this here.
Personal experience many years ago, my son's just in Paul.
We're in the early years of school, elementary school.
And back at the time, I haven't heard it a lot lately,
but from time to time, this would come up at a social gathering.
No, mine, you're there.
Second grade.
First grade, but these boys were thinkers.
So they'd listen, and they appreciated all these older ones,
and we had a number of them in Rhode Island.
Long time servants of Jehovah God.
However, from time to time, this statement,
and they'd be looking at my sons and,
oh, you'll never graduate in this system?
Not going to happen.
So, you know, I'm at their house.
They just fed us.
Lord, help me.
What am I going to do here?
But this would come up from time to time,
at least during those years.
I was post-1975.
I don't know.
But they'd make these statements.
And I'm going to give you a big confession,
because, you know, this one comes clear to mine,
driving back from the gathering,
just in Paul, or, you know, thinking in their trouble.
They're puzzled.
What is this about?
Because, you know, they had goals,
and what are we going to do,
for them is growing in their love for Jehovah?
You know, is that true, Dad?
And so, I'd say, look.
You know, let me tie these people,
saying these things, or long time servants,
experience people.
If any of you are guilty,
God loves you.
We forgive you.
If you did that back then.
You didn't help anybody.
But I'm going to give you a big confession.
So, that one particular night,
we're driving back,
it was a little distance from where we were.
And they brought that up.
They're sitting in the back seat,
so we're having this conversation.
And I told them, I said,
look, you boys remember,
you got to keep on the watch.
This thing could go on,
and be ready for it to go to 2020.
Honest.
I mean, we're talking almost 40 years.
Almost 40 years.
I felt pretty safe with that.
But you know what year this is?
What are you going to do?
But at least, I'm happy to say they,
and my wife and their wives,
we're all still keeping on the watch.
Have been and continue
to plan to keep on the watch.
Now, just something to address the feelings that some have.
And these are beautiful friends,
different ones worship in Jehovah for many decades.
And we're only human.
It's the truth, but we're only human.
We're only human.
We're the only human.
One brother wrote
and appreciated sincerity.
And he said,
during the annual meeting of 2019,
the Ramapoh project was announced.
And if I remember right,
it was stated that the project would be complete in a few years.
beautiful expression, but words are powerful.
It seemed a little disappointing
that this may push Armageddon off a few years.
This was his sincere concern, really.
And you know he's not alone.
They're only human.
Well, how should we respond?
Brother writes that in.
Well, remember Jehovah is a God of comfort.
You want to go direct?
It's what we address there with what Jesus told us.
But how can we comfort him too?
Rather bring the truth as it is and be straight with it.
But the governing body wants all of you to know,
including those that will see it later,
that we are determined to remain active
and to faithfully deliver spiritual food
at the right time.
We are also looking beyond the last days.
You're getting that message.
Let me expound on that thought.
Looking beyond the last days.
And this is a quote from the Proclaimers book.
And I treasured it when the book came out
and a lot of work went into that publication.
But there, referring to God's people,
it stated, you know,
there's a lot of international construction going on
at the time too, if you were in the truth then, quoting it now.
With the help of Jehovah's spirit,
they and God's people want to give the greatest witness
possible during the time that remains before Armageddon.
They are convinced that God's new world is very close at hand.
And they have faith that they will survive
as an organized people into the new world
under the rule of God's Messianic Kingdom.
Now, please note the rest of this quote.
It is also their hope that perhaps, keyword,
many of the fine facilities that they have built
and dedicated to Jehovah will continue to be used
after Armageddon as centers from which knowledge
of the only true God can be diffused
until it truly fills the earth.
End quote, beautiful thought.
Right there, still valid.
So in harmony with what the faithful slave said then,
the faithful slave now says many of the projects
that are being worked on now like Ramaphob and the good news
according to Jesus' video series,
may or perhaps will carry over into the new world
to assist the great crowd with the work ahead
and perhaps including resurrected ones.
That's comforting.
That's just, you have to let them sink in.
Now, we want to conclude with expressions
from two friends of mine, long time,
hardworking supporters of the faithful slave for decades.
I love these men and we're keeping anonymous.
But I asked them to write their personal feelings
as they've been supporting the slave
for all these decades.
How have they benefited from keeping on the watch?
So here's what the first one said,
I come from a long line of people who believed
in keeping an expectation of the end.
My mother died just last year
and she always felt that the end was closer to the end.
She just knew that she would live to see it, but she didn't.
She had first learned the truth from her mother and law,
my grandmother, and anointed Christian
who often told me that she hoped to see the income
in her lifetime.
She didn't.
She had learned the truth from her mother
who died when I was a teenager
and firmly believed she would see the end in her lifetime.
She didn't.
And she, my great grandmother,
had learned the truth from her mother and law
who died long before I was born
and surely felt the same way about seeing the end.
She didn't.
And here I am now in my seventh decade of life.
Firmly believing that I will see the end very soon.
So what does that mean?
That I'm just another one in a long line
of delusional people?
I don't think so.
For two reasons.
One, the evidence at the end is near keeps growing.
I've seen signs of the end
that even my mother never saw
such as the recent pandemic.
Sometimes I compare myself to a man living in Judea
around the year 608 BCE.
Such a man might have come from a long line
of faithful people who had listened to the prophets
and thought that the end was near
over a century earlier,
hearing these things.
Maybe his great grandparents might have heard Isaiah speak,
leading them to conclude the Jerusalem's end was near.
Should that man decide that his family had been deluded
just because they hadn't seen the destruction of Jerusalem?
No.
Jerusalem was destroyed in 607.
So he's living in 608 having these concerns months later
it happens.
But more importantly, that man would know
that his faithful family were good people
who lived good lives.
They loved Jehovah
and they saw the truth of Isaiah's words.
God teaches us to benefit ourselves.
And that's the second reason why I don't feel
that I've been deluded
or that my faithful family members have been.
Each one who served Jehovah
led a good, productive, useful life.
They were not just sitting around waiting for the end.
They always had projects that kept them busy
and Jehovah's service,
goals in personal study and preaching and helping others.
So they were full of purpose and joy.
I want the same kind of life.
Also, I can hardly wait to tell my mother it's touching
just how close the end was
when she finally closed her eyes.
I know she will want to hear all about it.
See, very touching.
And I second brother to him about how
keeping on the watch has benefited him.
My mom raised my brother me in the truth.
She often expressed to us her confidence
that the end is just around the corner.
She didn't just say it, she lived it.
She devoted herself to the ministry
so that she could help others to serve Jehovah
while there is still time.
She kept an expectation of the end
doing so year after year until she died.
Now I'm approaching the age of my mother when she died.
I've been keeping on the watch for over 50 years now.
Am I bitter because the end has not yet come?
No, not at all.
How could I be?
I've lived a full and satisfying life
by living according to Jehovah's standards.
Why would I want to live any other way?
What has helped me to keep positive while waiting
for the end to come?
From time to time I reflect on these few things
and here they are.
My dedication is unconditional and unending.
I did not dedicate myself to Jehovah
on the condition that he brings the end
within my lifetime.
Or even on the condition that he gives me
a reward, I dedicated myself to him forever.
And next, I must keep the big picture in mind.
I don't want to make the mistake of focusing only
on what the end will mean for me,
the prospect of surviving into the new world.
Rather, I must focus on something far more important
what the end will mean for Jehovah,
the sanctification of his name,
knowing how important that is to him,
I can be sure that it will happen in his due time.
And then finally,
meanwhile, I must endure to the end.
That means to the end of this system
or the end of my life, whichever comes first.
Either way, the older I get, the closer I am to the end.
What if like my mom, I don't live to see it?
No worries.
The moment I close my eyes in death,
my next conscious thought will be opening my eyes
in the new world.
Then it really won't matter
whether I live to see the end or not.
Beautiful expressions of two beautiful spiritual men.
So the question to conclude,
will this be the last
annual meeting
before the great tribulation?
Nobody raised their hand.
We don't know.
But what we do know is that Jehovah and Jesus
want us to keep on the watch
and it's for our own good to do so.